Hong Kongers eat millions of these compressed fish-meat snacks every day. And with a stall stewing fishball skewers in almost every 7-Eleven in the city, they're as ubiquitous and as accessible as that other classic Hong Kong snack, siu mai dumplings.
No doubt you will have heard or read about the stench emanating from one of the strangest foods to come out of this part of the world.
Barbecued pork stuffed into a bun deserves its very own shout-out here. Because, when we break open a soft white steamed bun and see the glistening mauve filling of diced cha siu with extra barbecue sauce spilling out and sniff the heady perfume of wine, soy, and hints of caramel, we're moved. North Garden calls theirs "cha siu mantou," giving the traditional bun a northern Chinese twist.
Unlike its more restrained Sunday brunch counterpart, Hong Kong-style French toast is for when you're stressed out and looking for a warm, deep-fried hug.
So they look awful, but once you get over that, what is there not to love about chicken feet?
Some Chinese sausages can be heavy on the salt and spices, but Cantonese laap cheung are a perfectly proportioned mix of slightly-sweet pork fat and meat. Rose water and rice wine gives them a pungent edge and soy sauce serves as a salty counterpart to the sweetness.
Like many classic Hong Kong food dishes, the origins of the egg tart are a bit murky, but it seems likely that they are yet another example of British tea time snacks -- custard tarts, in this case -- that were adapted to local Chinese tastes.
Yung Kee has been around since the 1940s when it was a mere food stall near the ferry pier, and has since grown to be the authority on Hong Kong roast goose.
Pigeons are usually dismissed as rats with wings, but believe us, rats don't taste this good. Cantonese-style pigeon is typically braised in soy sauce, rice wine and star anise before being roasted to crispy perfection.
Snake soup is said to cure any number of ailments. Forget about that.
Hong Kong's typhoon shelters used to harbor a community of "boat people" who made their homes on sampans. Out of the community rose a distinct culinary culture that centered on freshly caught seafood served with plenty of spices and "wok hei" -- good wok-wielding skills.
You could argue that afternoon tea is the single most pervasive legacy of British rule, enjoyed as it is by Hong Kongers from all walks of life, and milk tea is the most potent symbol of English traditions fused with Chinese sensibilities.
No, it isn't just for gwailos. Sweet and sour pork, called "gu lo yuk," is also a comfort food craved by Hong Kongers. The Cantonese original is made with vinegar, preserved plums and hawthorn candy for a nearly scarlet color and that sweet-sour tang. Nowadays, it's mostly made with ketchup and coloring.
Here's a lesson in making a silk purse out of a sow's ear: Take some dried lotus seeds -- those hard, pale, dime-sized bullets of little flavor -- soak, stew, grind to a paste, pass through cheesecloth, add sugar. Then comes the tricky stage.